DLL overrides
-------------
   
   The wine.conf directives [DllDefaults] and [DllOverrides] are the
   subject of some confusion. The overall purpose of most of these
   directives are clear enough, though - given a choice, should Wine use
   its own built-in DLLs, or should it use .DLL files found in an
   existing Windows installation? This document explains how this feature
   works.
   
DLL types

   native
          A "native" DLL is a .DLL file written for the real Microsoft
          Windows.
          
   builtin
          A "builtin" DLL is a Wine DLL. These can either be a part of
          libwine.so, or more recently, in a special .so file that Wine
          is able to load on demand.
          
   elfdll
          An "elfdll" is a Wine .so file with a special Windows-like file
          structure that is as close to Windows as possible, and that can
          also seamlessly link dynamically with "native" DLLs, by using
          special ELF loader and linker tricks. Bertho Stultiens did some
          work on this, but this feature has not yet been merged back
          into Wine (because of political reasons and lack of time), so
          this DLL type does not exist in the official Wine at this time.
          In the meantime, the "builtin" DLL type gained some of the
          features of elfdlls (such as dynamic loading), so it's possible
          that "elfdll" functionality will be folded into "builtin" at
          some point.
          
   so
          A native Unix .so file, with calling convention conversion
          thunks generated on the fly as the library is loaded. This is
          mostly useful for libraries such as "glide" that has exactly
          the same API on both Windows and Unix.
          
The [DllDefaults] section

   EXTRA_LD_LIBRARY_PATH
          This specifies the location of the Wine's DLL .so files. Wine
          will search this path when trying to locate a DLL of the type
          "builtin" or "elfdll". (This does not apply to libwine.so,
          since libwine.so is not a DLL in this sense.)
          
   DefaultLoadOrder
          This specifies in what order Wine should search for available
          DLL types, if the DLL in question was not found in the
          [DllOverrides] section.
          
The [DllPairs] section

   At one time, there was a section called [DllPairs] in the default
   configuration file, but this has been obsoleted because the pairing
   information has now been embedded into Wine itself. (The purpose of
   this section was merely to be able to issue warnings if the user
   attempted to pair codependent 16-bit/32-bit DLLs of different types.)
   If you still have this in your wine.conf or .winerc, you may safely
   delete it.
   
The [DllOverrides] section

   This section specifies how you want specific DLLs to be handled, in
   particular whether you want to use "native" DLLs or not, if you have
   some from a real Windows configuration. Because builtins do not mix
   seamlessly with native DLLs yet, certain DLL dependencies may be
   problematic, but workarounds exist in Wine for many popular DLL
   configurations. Also see WWN's [16]Status Page to figure out how well
   your favorite DLL is implemented in Wine.
   
   It is of course also possible to override these settings by explictly
   using Wine's --dll command-line option (see the man page for details).
   
   Some hints for choosing your optimal configuration (listed by
   16/32-bit DLL pair):
   
   krnl386, kernel32
          Native versions of these will never work, so don't try. Leave
          at builtin.
          
   gdi, gdi32
          Graphics Device Interface. No effort has been made at trying to
          run native GDI. Leave at builtin.
          
   user, user32
          Window management and standard controls. It was possible to use
          Win95's native versions at some point (if all other DLLs that
          depend on it, such as comctl32 and comdlg32, were also run
          native). However, this is no longer possible after the Address
          Space Separation, so leave at builtin.
          
   ntdll
          NT kernel API. Although badly documented, the native version of
          this will never work. Leave at builtin.
          
   w32skrnl
          Win32s (for Win3.x). Native version will probably never work.
          Leave at builtin.
          
   wow32
          Win16 support library for NT. Native version will probably
          never work. Leave at builtin.
          
   system
          Win16 kernel stuff. Will never work native. Leave at builtin.
          
   display
          Display driver. Definitely leave at builtin.
          
   toolhelp
          Tool helper routines. This is rarely a source of problems.
          Leave at builtin.
          
   ver, version
          Versioning. Seldom useful to mess with.
          
   advapi32
          Registry and security features. Trying the native version of
          this may or may not work.
          
   commdlg, comdlg32
          Common Dialogs, such as color picker, font dialog, print
          dialog, open/save dialog, etc. It is safe to try native.
          
   commctrl, comctl32
          Common Controls. This is toolbars, status bars, list controls,
          the works. It is safe to try native.
          
   shell, shell32
          Shell interface (desktop, filesystem, etc). Being one of the
          most undocumented pieces of Windows, you may have luck with the
          native version, should you need it.
          
   winsock, wsock32
          Windows Sockets. The native version will not work under Wine,
          so leave at builtin.
          
   icmp
          ICMP routines for wsock32. As with wsock32, leave at builtin.
          
   mpr
          The native version may not work due to thunking issues. Leave
          at builtin.
          
   lzexpand, lz32
          Lempel-Ziv decompression. Wine's builtin version ought to work
          fine.
          
   winaspi, wnaspi32
          Advanced SCSI Peripheral Interface. The native version will
          probably never work. Leave at builtin.
          
   crtdll
          C Runtime library. The native version will easily work better
          than Wine's on this one.
          
   winspool.drv
          Printer spooler. You are not likely to have more luck with the
          native version.
          
   ddraw
          DirectDraw/Direct3D. Since Wine does not implement the DirectX
          HAL, the native version will not work at this time.
          
   dinput
          DirectInput. Running this native may or may not work.
          
   dsound
          DirectSound. It may be possible to run this native, but don't
          count on it.
          
   dplay/dplayx
          DirectPlay. Native ought to work best on this, if at all.
          
   mmsystem, winmm
          Multimedia system. The native version is not likely to work.
          Leave at builtin.
          
   msacm, msacm32
          Audio Compression Manager. Builtin works best, if you set
          msacm.drv to the same.
          
   msvideo, msvfw32
          Video for Windows. It is safe (and recommended) to try native.
          
   mcicda.drv
          CD Audio MCI driver.
          
   mciseq.drv
          MIDI Sequencer MCI driver (.MID playback).
          
   mciwave.drv
          Wave audio MCI driver (.WAV playback).
          
   mciavi.drv
          AVI MCI driver (.AVI video playback). Best to use native.
          
   mcianim.drv
          Animation MCI driver.
          
   msacm.drv
          Audio Compression Manager. Set to same as msacm32.
          
   midimap.drv
          MIDI Mapper.
          
   wprocs
          This is a pseudo-DLL used by Wine for thunking purposes. A
          native version of this doesn't exist.
          
   Have fun...
   
                                                              - Ove Kåven
